Now in the previous lectures,
we got started with GitHub Actions
and we built our first basic workflow.
Now, in the meantime, I cloned this demo
onto my local system to also show you
how this would be stored locally.
This is this remote repository in the end.
And there you see this .github folder
with the workflows folder inside of it.
So that's a nested folder in .github.
And then in the workflows folder,
we have this first action YML file.
Now we'll move on to a different example though
and you find this example project attached to this lecture.
This is a very simple ReactJS web application
And you don't need to know ReactJS
or web development in order to follow along.
We will not write any meaningful ReactJS
or web development code and you don't need to understand
these things to understand how GitHub Actions work.
But I created this project so that we have a slightly
more realistic project to work with.
Now if you wanted to,
you could run this application locally.
For this, you must have Node.js installed on your system
and with Node.js installed locally,
you can navigate into this project folder,
into this second action react demo folder
or into that folder you downloaded to be precise.
And then in there you can run npm install
to install all third party dependencies
required by this project.
And once that finished, you can start a development server
that allows you to preview this very simple web app here.
So here, installation finished.
Now you can run npm run dev
to execute this script and start a development server,
which hosts the website on this address
on your local system.
Here we go.
That's this very simple demo website.
It's of course not very fancy,
but it will do the trick.
The interesting part about this demo project
is that we can't just preview the app locally,
but instead we also have a test script,
which will execute some predefined automated tests.
Now I do have a separate course on testing
if you would wanna learn more about these automated tests,
unit tests specifically.
In the end, what we have here is a simple test file
next to the component it belongs to.
And in that file I have two tests
that are executed that simply check
whether the site works as intended
or whether this component here,
this site building block works as intended.
Again, you don't need to understand the code.
The only important thing to understand here
is that we do have those tests.
Now with all the dependencies installed
and Node.js installed,
we could run these tests by running npm test
and that would then execute them locally.
And we should see that by default, they're all passing.
Now the thing is these are all things
we'll typically do locally,
but it would also be quite realistic
that we wanna manage this project with Git,
that we wanna have a remote Git repository on GitHub
to store our code there.
Possibly also to collaborate with colleagues.
And it would also be quite reasonable
that we maybe wanna run all these tests here automatically
whenever a new version of that code is pushed
to this remote repository.
And that's exactly what will set up now
with help of GitHub Actions.
Now for that, I'll first of all start
by initializing a Git repository here.
Now I reinitialized it here because I already had one,
but you should do this for the downloaded project as well.
Once you created that repository,
it's worth noting that we have a .gitignore file here,
which actually ignores a bunch of files and folders.
For example, it ignores the node modules folder,
this folder here, which includes all these
third party dependencies that were installed
when we ran npm install.
This is ignored because this folder can always be recreated
by running npm install
and it should not be checked into version control.
But that's just a side note.
With this Git repository initialized,
we can of course create our initial commit
by staging all files
and creating this initial commit like this.
And now we can create a remote repository
for this project if we want to.
For that, I'll move back to GitHub and to my repositories.
And there I wanna add a new repository.
So under repositories I'll add a new repository
and I'll name this second action react demo.
The name as always is up to you.
You can add a description and you could turn it
into a private repository if you want to.
And actually here to mix things up.
I will do that.
Now I won't add any files to it
because this time this is a repository,
which I plan to connect to my local Git repository
which already includes files.
Therefore, I'll set it up like this
and create this repository and then I'll grab that URL here.
Go back to my local project
and add this link to this remote repository.
With the git remote command, add my origin.
So this is the identifier I use for this remote repository
and add that URL, but I'll not add it like this.
Instead, to make sure that I'm prompted for a password
when I try to push to this repository,
I'll add my GitHub username here.
Of course, you should add your username here.
With that, we should be able to push our code
to this repository and we should be prompted for a password
unless we already have such a personal access token
stored on our system
because we used it before on other projects.
So here I wanna push
and to make sure that git push works like that,
we have to execute this command once
to create this link between our local main branch
and this remote main branch, so to say.
So after running this once, this will be pushed
by just running git push in the future.
Now here, it did already push though.
And with that, if we reload this remote repository,
our code is on GitHub.
But right now, there of course, has no action related to it.